nodemon - automatically restart server after saving, used during development
-- watch can also be used 
dependency vs dev dependency 
prettier is also a dev dependency 

-----------------------
connect to database 

use try catch or resolve reject while connecting to database to avoid problems 
assume database is in another continent , means it takes time to talk, means always use async await 
manually restart when changes in env variables as nodemon cannto restart there 
Database connection is asynchronous because DB may be remote/take time to respond → use async/await.
mongoose.connect() → connects Node.js app to MongoDB.
await → waits for the DB connection to complete before continuing.
try/catch → handles errors during DB connection.
try → attempt connection.
catch → handle connection failure.
process.exit(1) → stops the Node.js process when a critical error occurs.
dotenv → loads .env variables into process.env.
process.env.MONGODB_URI → accesses the MongoDB URL stored in .env.
connectDB() → keep DB connection logic in a separate file/function.
app.on('error') → listens for errors emitted by the Express app; different from try/catch, which handles errors thrown/rejected inside the try block.
Nodemon may not restart automatically when .env changes → manually restart the server.

const connectDB = async () => {
    try {
        await mongoose.connect(DB_URL)
        console.log("MongoDB connected")
    } catch (error) {
        console.log("Connection failed", error)
        process.exit(1)
    }
}

--------------------------

app.use is used when working with middleware or configuration settings 

.then() → runs when a Promise succeeds.
.catch() → handles when a Promise fails.
.then/.catch and try/catch are two different ways to handle Promises.
app.listen() → starts the Express server on a port.
process.env.PORT || 8000 → use PORT from .env, otherwise use 8000.
app.use() → adds middleware to the Express app.
Middleware → processes a request before it reaches the route/controller.
cors() → controls which origins can access the backend.
credentials: true → allows credentials such as cookies in cross-origin requests.
express.json() → parses JSON request bodies so data can be accessed using req.body.
express.urlencoded() → parses URL-encoded/form data so it can be accessed using req.body.
Parsing → converting incoming data into a format the program can understand/use.
express.static('public') → serves static files from the public folder.
cookieParser() → parses cookies so they can be accessed using req.cookies.
connectDB() → connects the backend to MongoDB using Mongoose.
Usually connect to DB successfully → then start the Express server.

----------------------------
along with js fundamentals required 

CLASS: blueprint used to create objects/instances.
INSTANCE: an actual object created from a class using new. Every instance is an object, but not every object is an instance of a particular class.
new User("Rahul"): creates a new User instance, runs its constructor, then assigns the resulting instance to user1.
constructor(): automatically runs when a new instance is created and initializes its properties.
this: refers to the current object/instance being worked on. Inside a constructor, this refers to the newly created instance, which is later assigned to a variable like user1.
extends: makes a child class inherit properties/methods from a parent class.
class Dog extends Animal: Dog inherits from Animal.
super(): calls the parent class constructor and initializes the parent part of the same child instance. It does not create a separate parent object.
throw: stops normal execution at that point and raises an error, which can be handled by catch/error handling.
class ApiError extends Error: creates a custom error class based on JavaScript's built-in Error class, allowing extra properties like statusCode.
PROMISE: a built-in JavaScript object that represents the eventual result of an asynchronous operation. States: pending → fulfilled (success) or rejected (failure).
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {...}): creates a Promise. The function passed to Promise is the executor function; Promise provides resolve and reject functions to it.
resolve(value): tells the Promise that the operation succeeded and provides its result.
reject(error): tells the Promise that the operation failed and provides the error/reason.
.then(): handles the successful result of a Promise.
.catch(): handles a rejected/failed Promise.
async: makes a function asynchronous and allows await inside it. An async function always returns a Promise.
await: waits for a Promise to settle inside an async function. If fulfilled, it gives the resolved value; if rejected, it throws the error. It pauses only that async function, not the whole JavaScript program.
const result = await promise: waits for the Promise to fulfill and stores its actual resolved value in result, not the Promise itself.
try/catch with await: try contains the awaited operation; if its Promise rejects, await throws the error and execution moves to catch.
Promise.resolve(value): creates/returns a fulfilled Promise containing value. Usually you don't create Promises manually because libraries/functions like Mongoose often return Promises themselves.
ASYNC HANDLER: A function that wraps an async request handler so rejected Promises/errors can be passed to Express error middleware.
Promise.resolve(requestHandler(req, res, next)).catch((err) => next(err))
requestHandler(req, res, next): the actual controller/route handler being executed.
Promise.resolve(): ensures the returned value is handled as a Promise. If requestHandler returns a Promise, it works with that Promise; if it returns a normal value, it converts it into a resolved Promise.
.catch((err) => next(err)): if the handler's Promise is rejected, pass the error to Express's next() so Express error-handling middleware can handle it.
WHY ASYNC HANDLER: Avoids writing try/catch in every async controller just to pass errors to Express.
CUSTOM API ERROR:
class ApiError extends Error {
    constructor(statusCode, message) {
        super(message);
        this.statusCode = statusCode;
    }
}
ApiError extends Error → custom error based on built-in Error.
super(message) → initializes the parent Error with the message.
this.statusCode → adds custom HTTP status information to the same error instance.
THROW:
throw new ApiError(404, "User not found");
Creates an ApiError and stops normal execution so the error can be handled by catch/error middleware.
EXPRESS ERROR FLOW:
Controller throws/rejects → async handler catches rejection → next(error) → Express error middleware handles the error.

---------------------
Bearer token = token sent in the Authorization header as Bearer <token> to authenticate a request.
bcrypt → used to hash passwords before storing them in DB; bcrypt.hash(password, 10)
bcrypt.compare(password, hashedPassword) → checks whether entered password matches stored hash
userSchema.pre("save", async function(next){}) → middleware that runs before saving a document; this refers to current document
this.isModified("password") → checks whether password was changed, so it isn't hashed again on every save
userSchema.methods.methodName = function(){} → adds custom methods to documents created from the schema; this refers to the current document
JWT (jsonwebtoken) → used to authenticate users through tokens; jwt.sign(payload, secret, options) generates a token
Access Token → short-lived token used for authenticated API requests; Refresh Token → longer-lived token used to generate a new access token
process.env.ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET / ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRY → JWT secret and expiry stored in .env; same for REFRESH_TOKEN_*
mongooseAggregatePaginate → plugin that adds pagination support for aggregation queries; videoSchema.plugin(mongooseAggregatePaginate)

---------------------

multer is similar to expressfile upload 
fs is nodejs ka file system management  -read, write, remove etc. 